[[Assesment objectives]]
[[Business objectives]]

# Business objectives
## Definition

**Business objective** – quantifiable targets or goals to be achieved
within a given time frame. There are quantifiable objectives that can be
measured (profit, sales, etc.) and qualitative that cannot be measured
(employee welfare).

To name a few:

1.  <span>Profit maximisation</span>

2.  <span>Sales maximisation</span>

3.  <span>Satisfying</span>

4.  <span>Survival</span>

5.  <span>Employee welfare</span>

6.  <span>Cost efficiency</span>

7.  <span>Customer satisfaction</span>

8.  <span>Social objectives (to behave in a way which
    benefits society)</span>

9.  <span>Return On Investment (ROI)</span>

## Reasons to set SMART objectives

Business objectives should be SMART:

-   Specific

-   Measurable

-   Achievable

-   Realistic

-   Time-bound

*Example:*

DLD business objectives:

1.  <span>Improve employee welfare by 2022, 80% teachers should say they
    are happy (time frame is compulsory!)</span>

2.  <span>Increase the profit by 20% by 2023</span>

Reasons to set business objectives

-   Common sense of purpose

-   Motivate employees

-   Create reward system

-   Measure and review performance

-   Inform decisions to improve performance

Formulae
--------

*Total Revenue (TR)*

*Total Cost (TC)*

*Profit (P)*

*Quantity Demanded (QD)*

$$TR-TC=P$$ $$TR = P \cdot QD$$

*Example:*

50 pizzas sold at \$10 = TR \$500

Each pizza costs \$2 to produce = TC \$400

**Cash flow** – is the flow of cash into and out of a business over a
period of time.

Return On Investment
--------------------

**Return On Investment (ROI)** is a measure of a firm’s profitability
and performance, targets for it are set in %.

Corporate Social Responsibility
===============================

**CSR** – the business behaving in an ethical way and accepting
responsibility for its effects on all stakeholders including the wider
community and the environment.

Reasons for a business to engage with CSR:

-   Reputation (customers and society view business better)

-   Employees (Benefits include higher staff retention, lower HR costs,
    more motivated workers)

-   Increasing profits

-   Social objectives

Zero-hour Contracts
===================

**Zero-hour contract** mean that employees work only when they are
needed, usually at short notice (e.g. workers are asked to come to work
an hour in advance, so no set schedule). Their pay depend on hours
worked.

Milton Friedman – businesses only have a responsibility to maximize
profits for their shareholders.

If a business tries to improve the conditions for its workers, this
could lower profits, which according to Friedman, will actually result
in lower prosperity.

Overall, zero-hours contracts produce jobs that pay relatively little.
This may not be economically beneficial for the society, because lots of
people can not afford many basic necessities on these wages.

Entrepreneurship
================

Added Value
-----------

**Added Value** is the ability to ensure that the value of the output is
higher than the sum of the value of all the *physical* inputs. No
labour, rent, etc. is included, otherwise it is just profit!

*Formula:* TR–TC *of physical inputs* = Added Value

It can be achieved by:

-   Manufacturing process to combine inputs

-   Marketing to increase actual or perceived value e.g. branding or
    emotional advertising

-   Unique selling point or product differentiation

-   Enhancing the customer experience

-   Technology

Characteristics Of an Entrepreneur
----------------------------------

-   Creative

-   Risk taker

-   Hard working

-   Decision maker

-   Determined

-   Enthusiastic

Specialisation
==============

Specialisation increases productivity.

**Autarky** – being self sufficient, meaning producing everything
yourself.

However, it is very difficult to achieve because of the lack of
resources and constant constraints by natural environment. The closest
country to autarky is North Korea.

**Productivity** – increasing output whilst the input remains constant.

**Labour turnover** – the frequency of people coming and leaving an
organisation.

Demand
======

Definition
----------

**Demand** – consumer’s willingness and ability to buy stuff at certain
prices.

**The law of demand** – there is an inverse relationship between prices
and quantity demanded.

The demand curve slopes downwards because of the law of demand.

It shifts to the left when demand drops, and to the right otherwise.

There is a movement up along the curve if the price increases, and down
along the curve if the price decreases.

Demand VS Quantity Demanded
---------------------------

*Quantity demanded* only relates to a change in price.

*Demand*, on the other hand, changes because of:

-   The price of related products – substitutes and complements.

    -   **Substitute** – two goods are substitutes if a fall in the
        price of one of the goods makes consumers less willing to but
        the other good.

    -   **Complement** – two goods are complements if a fall in the
        price of one good makes people more willing to but the
        other good.

    -   *Example:* Sprite is a substitute for Cola, Crisps is a
        complement to cola.

-   Change of consumer preferences/tastes/fashion etc.

-   Expectations

-   Changes in income

    -   **Normal goods** – when a rise in income increases the demand
        for a good – the normal case – we say that the good is a
        normal good.

    -   **Inferior Goods** – when a rise in income decreases the demand
        for a good, it is an inferior good.

    -   *Example:* Bus is an inferior good when compared to a car – a
        normal good.

Market
------

**Market** – any place that buyers and sellers will come together to
exchange goods or services.

**Stable market** is the one where there are not major fluctuations in
supply and demand resulting in a relatively consistent price of goods
and services.

-   Setting a minimum or a maximum price (price floor or price ceiling)
    will result in fewer trades and less benefits for everyone.

-   Trade will result in mutually beneficial transactions.

-   With more information, economic agents will set prices towards the
    standard of the market.

-   Government intervention can lead to a lower number of transactions.

Supply
======

**Supply** – the different quantities of a good that sellers are willing
and able to produce at different prices.

**The law of supply** – there is a direct relationship between price and
quantity supplied.

-   As price increases, the quantity producers make increases.

-   As price falls, the quantity producers make falls.

The reason is that at higher prices profit seeking firms have an
incentive to produce more.

The supply curve slopes upwards, because of the law of supply.

Supply VS Quantity Supplied is analogical to demand, including the
reasons, movements and shifts. It could also shift because of the
availability and costs of resources.

**Joint supply** – when you want to produce one thing but in the end you
get two.

*Example:* The production of beef also gives you leather.

Supply & Demand
===============

**Equilibrium** – optimal price, the point of intersection of the demand
and supply curves.

**Price control** – maximum and minimum prices set by the government.

**Price ceiling** – price is no higher than X. To be effective, it
should be set *below* the equilibrium.

**Price floor** – price is no lower than X. To be effective, it should
be set *above* the equilibrium.

Price Mechanism
===============

**Price Mechanism** – the method by which prices for goods and services
are achieved.

The functions of the price mechanism to allocate resources:

-   *The Rationing function* occurs because increased demand or reduced
    supply of a product will lead to a price rise. In other words,
    allocating goods to the people who want it the most and able to pay
    for them.

-   *The Signaling function* occurs because changing prices give a
    signal to consumers and producers as to whether to leave or enter a
    market, e.g. higher prices suggest that consumers should buy less.

-   *The Incentive function* occurs because a consumer or producer is
    motivated to a course of action, e.g. higher prices will incentivise
    a producer to supply more of a good or service.

**Productive efficiency** – getting the most possible output from
limited inputs.

**Allocative efficiency** – making as many people satisfied as possible.

Market Research
===============

There are two main types of market research: *primary* and *secondary*.

**Primary research** involves the collection of first hand data that did
not exist before and therefore it is original data.

**Secondary research** is research that has already been undertaken by
another organisation and therefore already exists.

Types of market
===============

**Mass market** – the market that targets all customers. It is not
segmented, meaning the characteristics of types of customers are not
important to the producers.

**Niche market** – the market that identifies small gaps in the market.
The target market is well defined with distinct characteristics.

Competition
===========

Definition
----------

**Competition** – when two or more businesses are in a rivalry to sell
more of their products in the same market.

*Example:* how do cafes compete?

-   Pricing

-   Variety of products

-   Differentiation

-   Location

-   Quality of products/service

-   Advertising

-   Design (etc.)

Market positioning
------------------

**Market positioning** – the way a product is seen in comparison with
rival products.

Influences on positioning include:

-   Market conditions, e.g. degree of competition

-   Internal constraints, e.g. budgets

-   External constraints, e.g. state of the economy

-   Internal strengths, e.g. creativity and innovation

Competitive advantage
---------------------

**Competitive advantage** – a feature of a business that allows it to
perform more successfully than others in the market.

*Example:*

-   Same quality of product at a lower price

-   Superior product achieved through differentiation

Factors contributing to a competitive advantage include:

-   Product differentiation

-   Ability to add value

-   Operational efficiency

-   Position relative to competitors

Michael Porter’s^\[1\]^ generic strategy states that a firm can enjoy a
competitive advantage if it is either lowest cost or highest
differentiated.

**Differentiation** means being able to offer a product or service that
stands our from the competition.

**Variable cost** – cost per unit. Changes with output.

**Fixed cost** – cost that doesn’t change with output, e.g. rent.

*^\[1\]^Michael Porter is an American academic known for his theories on
economics, business strategy, and social causes.*

Risk and liability
==================

Risk
----

**Risk** is measurable and it is possible to add a probability to
quantify the degree of risk.

**Uncertainty** is not measurable and it is not possible to quantify it
as the outcome is too unpredictable.

*“Black swan event"* – a completely unpredictable event, e.g. COVID-19.

Liability
---------

**Limited liability** – an investor’s liability/financial commitment is
limited to the total amount invested or promised in share capital. An
investor’s personal belongings beyond this venture are protected.

**Unlimited liability** – the owners of a business are responsible for
the total amount of debt of the business. The owner may lose their
personal belongings, e.g. home and cars, meaning that unlimited
liability involves higher risk.

Credit
======

Definition
----------

**Credit** – a legal agreement between a borrower and a lender.

Types of credit include:

-   Loans

-   Overdrafts

-   Trade credit

Sources of credit include:

-   Banks

-   Other firms

Loans
-----

**Loan** – a set amount of money provided for a specific purpose, to be
repaid with interest, over a set period of time.

Advantages:

-   Quick and easy to secure

-   Fixed interest rates allow firms to budget (planning the finances
    within your constraints)

-   The borrower retains ownership of the company

-   Improved cash flow

Disadvantages:

-   Interest must be paid regardless of financial performance

-   A firm normally provides security known as collateral

-   Often more expensive than other forms of finance

-   Can be charged a penalty for early payment

Overdrafts
----------

**Overdraft** – the facility to overspend on a current account^(1)^ up
to an agreed sum. E.g. a small negative balance on the bank account.
Interest is charged on the overdrawn amount. This is a good short-term
source of finance.

Advantages:

-   Only borrowed when required allowing flexibility

-   Pay less overall because interest is only on a relatively small
    amount of money

-   Quick and easy to arrange

Disadvantages:

-   The bank can cancel it at any time

-   Only available from a current bank account

-   Interest payments tend to be variable making it more difficult to
    budget

-   Interest tends to be higher than that for a loan

Trade credit
------------

**Trade credit** – paying suppliers a period of time after the goods or
services have been received.

In effect, the supplier is providing the business with finance for the
period of the trade credit, e.g. 30 days.

Sources of finance
==================

Venture capital
---------------

**Venture capital** – investment from an established business into
another business in return for a percentage equity^(2)^ in the business,
also known as private equity finance.

Venture capitalists will normally look for a high rate of return in a
specific time period. The business or entrepreneur may also benefit from
expertise and mentoring from the venture capitalist. Often associated
with high risk start-ups.

Advantages:

-   Potential for large suns of money for investment

-   Expertise to help the business

-   Makes is easier to attract other sources of finance

-   Provides the required capital for expansion

Disadvantages:

-   A long and complex process

-   Expert financial projections are likely to be required

-   Initially expensive for the firm, e.g. legal and accounting fees

-   Partial loss of ownership

-   Risk of conflict or perceived interference

Share capital
-------------

**Share capital** – finance raised from the sale of shares.

This is a form of equity capital i.e. the shareholder becomes a part
owner of the business. Shareholders will be rewarded for their
investment by the payment of dividends but may also benefit from an
increase in share price increasing the value of their share.

Advantages:

-   Only need to pay dividends if a profit is being made and the amount
    of dividend is not fixed

-   Possible to raise large amounts of finance

-   No interest repayments

Disadvantages:

-   Loss of ownership as shareholders are part owners

-   Potential risk of loss of control for a PLC with a threat of hostile
    takeovers

-   Complex and costly process of issuing share, especially for a PLC

Role of banks in providing credit
=================================

How banks create money?
-----------------------

Using savers money for investment is not the main way that banks create
liquidity. One of the main roles of banks is to provide credit. Banks
create money by making loans to households and firms that are then
charged interest as the cost of borrowing this money.

It is important to note that the act of lending creates deposits, rather
than deposits creating lending. When a bank provides a loan it credits
an account with the amount of the loan electronically creating money
that did not previously exist. It is important to understand that his is
brand new money, *not* the money deposited by savers.

**Liquidity** – money that can be used quickly, e.g. cash. On the other
hand, a car or a house for example are **illiquid**.

Is money a factor of production?
--------------------------------

**No.** Money is a medium of exchange, it facilitates the production
process. It does not directly make the output, it helps indirectly.
Because money is to some extent an intangible thing, something purely
created by humans, it does not go tangibly into the production process.

Profits, revenues and loss
==========================

Salary VS Wage
--------------

**Salary** is fixed and paid monthly, **wages** are variable and paid
hourly. For example, CEOs and teachers are paid salary. Taxi drivers,
waitresses and other people on zero-hour contracts are paid wages.

However, all costs are variable in the long run, e.g. an employee might
get a raise, so their salary would change.

Productivity and elasticity
---------------------------

**Productivity** measures how much output you get per unit of input.

**Diminishing Marginal Productivity (Diminishing Return)** –

**Elastic** – the change in Quantity demanded is *greater* than the
change in price.

**Inelastic** – the change in Quantity demanded is *less* than the
change in price.

Formulae
--------

### Contribution

**Contribution** – the amount of each sale raised towards fixed cost.
$$CT = P - VC$$ *VC – Variable Cost*

*CT – ConTribution*

$$TCT = TR - AVC$$ *TCT – Total ConTribution*

*TR – Total Revenue*

*AVC – Average Variable Cost*

**TODO: WRITE DOWN ALL THE FORMULAS!**

### Margin of safety

**Margin of safety** – how much actual output is above the break-even
level of output.

$$MoS = AOL - BEP$$ *MoS – Margin of Safety*

*AOL – actual Output Level*

*BEP – Break Even Point*


%% Make footnotes instead of this section %%
Vocabulary
==========

**Delegation** is about giving responsibility to people, generally lower
in a hierarchy.

**Prosperity** – wealth, economic wellbeing.

**To break even** – to make no profit/loss.

**USP** – Unique Selling Points

**Patent** – a legal proof of ownership of a product.

**To default on the loan** – being unable to pay the loan.

**Public Private Partnership (PPP)** – the collaboration between the
government and a private business in order to finance a project.

**Turnover** – revenue.
===================

**^(1)^Current account** – a bank account for day-to-day transactions.

**^(2)^Equity** – ownership.

**^(3)^Dividends** – the share of profit that goes back to the
investors.
